Hi, everyone. Welcome to video 1 of this week on communication. The first thing that we need to talk about in terms of communication is how we communicate with ourselves. And it's actually a form of self love.

So before we go trying to figure out how to talk to anyone else, we need to take a look at the thoughts that are in our head and the way we treat ourselves. So I challenge you to take a moment and actually reflect.

What do you think are the main 3 themes of thoughts that are in your head throughout a day? You know, for most people, this tends to be something around money, health, relationships, your job, or your children.

But for me, when I first started to look into this, I realized that the majority of the thoughts that were in my head when I wasn't paying attention so much tended to be thoughts of criticism about myself.

There were worries about saying or doing the right thing They were just constantly telling myself I wasn't thin enough or cool enough or smart enough to do what I wanted to do.

The majority of the thoughts were, basically derogatory. And if we go through life putting ourselves down like this, it's quite a tragedy because we have an opportunity to really treat ourselves with care and compassion.

We've been taught though that in order to get ahead in life, that the only way or the most effective way to motivate ourselves is through criticism, is through beating ourselves up, is through being hard on ourselves.

And there seems to be some unacknowledged decision that we've made as a society, which is that there and there's this fear that, oh my god, if I if I don't beat myself up, I'm never gonna actually do what needs to be done in my day.

It's like, oh, if I'm nice to myself, why the hell would I ever get off the couch? If I don't beat myself up, how would I ever manage to do all of the things that are on my to do list?

And so we become sort of driven by our to do list driven by this fear that we're not gonna measure up and that the only way to motivate ourselves is through criticism.

But what I wanna ask you to do today is to dare to change that. See what happens if instead you motivate yourself out of love, pleasure, compassion, and passion for life.

Like, remember we've been practicing this idea of how can we find the pleasure in whatever it is we're doing because that will make us wanna do it more.

So this is really a deep practice of How can we find the pleasure, even in seemingly unpleasant things in our life, even in seemingly hard tasks that we have to do?

Now there's another there's other moments where we can really take a look at how we talk to ourselves. And those are moments like when we're putting our clothes on, you know? Are we praising our body?

Are we celebrating ourselves? Or are we constantly thinking, oh, I'm too fat or I'm not muscular enough or I'm too skinny or something like that. And then, of course, there's the looking in the mirror that we do several times a day.

When we look in the mirror, do you have a habit of saying, oh, I'm so ugly or I'm focusing on the things that you don't like. So I challenge you now every time you put on your clothes to find something you love about your body.

Every time you look in the mirror to find something you love about your face, like, wow. I love my nose. It's such a cool shape or my hair is so freaking fantastic, you know, or I love my crooked teeth. Right.

And because The last aspect to this is we need to be able to celebrate ourselves. Right? You wanna be able to gracefully accept a compliment you wanna be able to feel praise from another person and not just deflected all the time.

And so in addition to looking in the mirror, putting out our clothes, watching our thoughts in the pauses. I want you to find really affirming ways that you can celebrate yourself and really brag.

Like, find something that you can freaking brag about. You're I am freaking good at math or I'm really, really, really good at spreadsheets, you know. Or I'm great at parallel parking.

Whatever it is. No 1 else has to hear it. You know, I know we've been taught to be really afraid of bragging, but it's important that we're able to own the things that we're good at to focus on our strengths.

So this is all part of how we talk to ourselves. Now there's 1 thing that I've done that's been especially useful to me in turning around the habitual thoughts in my head.

Because the habitual thoughts in my head were really bad. They were really critical and I essentially never acknowledged what I'd done well.

Or never acknowledge the good things about myself. And it was making me sort of cave in and it made it hard for me to feel self confident and to honor myself and honor my boundaries when I related to other people.

Because I just assumed that everyone else was smarter or cooler or knew better than me what what we should do and so I was constantly, like, deferring to other people.

At the expense of my own my own needs, So the 1 thing that I did that was incredibly helpful here was I started using a mantra.

You know? And I would say it 40 times in the morning and 40 times at night to really put it in my head. But then it was there for me to fall back on.

And I consciously decided whenever I noticed You know, if I'm driving and noticing all these critical thoughts, I would instead fall back on just repeating my mantra over and over and over again.

You know? And for me, I use a sanskrit mantra that reminds me of the qualities that I most want to embody in life.

Right? And for me, those are things like centeredness, presence, surrender, and compassion. For you, if you don't wanna use a sanskrit mantra and you're not connected to that world at all, it's totally great.

You use anything in English that calls to your heart. That evokes the energy of who you wanna be. It could be a line of poetry, a lyric of music, it could even be simply I love you.

Just eat that as your mantra that you're really saying to yourself. As if you're speaking to yourself, as you were as a child, you know, remembering all of the love that this innocent child deserved and maybe didn't get.

So really holding yourself with so much care throughout your day whenever you get a chance. And then from this place of I am awesome. Notice if the spark, if this flow of life just naturally comes through you. And you're like, yeah.

You know? And I wanna get these things done because I wanna live an awesome life, not because I have to beat myself up in order to do them. So your action step in the group right now after this video is to take a moment and reflect.

What are the 3 things that you spend most of your time thinking about. What are the ways in which you're going to decide to tell yourself that you're awesome when you look in the mirror, and what is your mantra going to be?

So pick a mantra Start saying it to yourself, make it habitual so that you fall back on that instead of self criticism and share all of those things with the group.