Hi there, welcome to lesson three of our communications week. So in this lesson, we finally made it all the way to how do we communicate in moments of stress of intense emotion, of feeling triggered with another person.
This is such deep, deep, deep practice, you guys. And it can be so humbling, right? Because it can reveal how much do we really feel this desire to defend ourselves versus how committed are we to love and to connection and to putting aside our ego for the sake of those things. It humbles me every time I find myself in one of these situations. Now, what is the word triggered mean? Because this is really all about communicating consciously when we're triggered and triggered is just what we say when we're feeling something really strongly. When the words or the actions or something about the situation we're in has provoked a really strong response in us.
And there's a couple things to remember here. The first is that, remember, we had a weak on emotions. And if you've been practicing circulating emotions through your body, if you've been practicing relating to them as pure energy, then that is going to come in so handy here. So if you have an automatic responsive, like, I'm feeling this strong anger or contraction, or whatever it is, or this, this desire to strike out, and instead, your practice kicks in your practice of moving the emotions through your body, it's going to give you some space, and a moment to breathe, and collect yourself before you start responding to another person. And that space is golden. That space is where we become ninjas at this.
The other thing to keep in mind is that most of us think that when we're triggered, our strong emotional response is actually appropriate to the situation. Now, sometimes it is It depends on what's going on. But often what's happening is that the situation is reminding our body and our subconscious of something that happened in our childhood, or it's striking deep into a wound that we have that we haven't healed. And so our response can be a bit like larger, it can be even a response to something that happened in the past, and not necessarily something to not necessarily a response to what's happening right now. This is why it's so important for us to take responsibility for our reactions and not blame it on the other person, or expect the other person to fix it for us or to think that it's their fault. Of course, every interaction is a co creation. And yet, you know, our little human bodies are complex. And we have a lot of old energy in us unless we've been doing a lot of work. And so it can come out in these unexpected moments of trigger. So we need to take responsibility for getting the help we need and for learning to regulate our emotions as best we can. So in that process comes how to communicate skillfully when we're in the face when we're in the thrall of these really intense emotions.
And so here's what you can do. Just on an overall level, the first thing to realize is, you want to communicate with the other person by speaking about specific, observable data, not in conjecture, not in what you think is going on. But really saying, Okay, what I heard you say, was this, and then repeating what you heard? And asking, is that right? Is that what did I hear you correctly? Because maybe what you think they said, isn't even what they said, and maybe you wouldn't even be mad about it. If you knew what they actually said.
The second thing to remember is to use I statements. So instead of saying, you're such an asshole, or I can't believe you said that, you know, or, you know, you, you, you this,
to speak of your own truth, which is what we've been working on in this whole program to say, Okay, if that's if I heard you correctly, and that is what you said. Then when you say that, I noticed, I feel this way. Like when you said that, I noticed, I now feel really, really angry.
And sometimes, it's just so hard to say that it's so hard to start to repeat back what the other person said it might be like, Okay, what I heard you say was this, you know, it's that's what I'm
invite it's a very humbling experience. But we have to remember that we're in this for love. We're in this for better sex, better relationships. And so we want connection, understanding and empathy.
So after you repeat back what the other person said, and use if statements to represent how you're feeling, remember here not to fall into the trap of using feelings as veiled judgments or using things that are veiled judgments and pretending that their feelings. So for example, when you say, I feel that you are trying to hurt me, that's not a feeling, that's a judgment, say I feel hurt. And I think that you're trying to hurt me, right? Or I feel like you've been terrible. That's actually an accusation of them veiled as a feeling. So make sure that when you say what you feel you're using feeling words.
And finally, you know, when you say, when, when you do this, I feel this way, then you can tell them the impact on our connection is, so for example, someone could tell me something like, Oh, I know, you asked, I know, you wanted me to go to the store and pick this thing up. But I didn't manage to do it today. And I could say, well, when you say that, when you say that you didn't manage to go to the store, I feel disappointed and a little bit angry. And I actually don't want to feel that way. You know, the impact on our connection is I feel less close to you. But I'd really want to feel closer to you instead. So can you help me out here? Tell me more about why you didn't do that. So I think it's really sweet. When you have a chance to tell someone like, look, the way this is impacting me right now is I feel like I want to run away, or I feel.
Yeah, I just feel shut down. And I don't want to talk to you anymore. But I don't actually want to be feeling that way. What can we do to repair this so that we feel closer and in connection again. So there's a lot there. But let's put it all together. The idea is that when we're in the moment of communication with someone else, and we're feeling really triggered, that's when we need to pull in all of our resources that we've been using so far, we need to find our center to take a pause and breathe and come into the reality of what's happening in our body.
We also need to take responsibility for our own inner world, because what's being triggered in US might or might not be a result of the situation at hand, it might be a result of something from the past or something even deeper, that we're not aware of.
One of the ways to try to talk to someone in the situation, instead of defending ourselves lashing out or making accusations is to repeat back what the person said or did, until you're sure that you've actually understood what's going on. And then to use I statements to report on how you're feeling, and not saying you make me feel that makes me feel but to say, when you do that I feel this way. And then you can talk about the impact on your connection, again, taking responsibility, saying something like, I really feel disconnected from you right now. I want to run away. But I actually know that I want to get back to feeling in love with you again. So help me understand what was going on for you when you did this.
That's a way of staying really present, being honest about what you're feeling, and trying to bring back the connection with the other person. Again, this stuff can be really hard to do in the moment. It's kind of the study of a lifetime, which is why I love it because it like brings the fascination back into our daily lives into every interaction that we have with someone.
So your action step for this week is to go sit down and think about the last time you had a conversation with someone where you were triggered. And write down when you bla bla bla. So when the other person did or said whatever they said, Write down what you thought, like, I thought, you're an asshole, you're an idiot. I thought you're terrible. I thought this makes no sense. Like all the things that you thought. And then also write down what you felt about it. Right, so separate what's a thought? What's an opinion and an accusation? And what's a feeling? So write down what they did or said, what you thought about it, what you felt about it. So I felt sad, I felt contracted, I felt hopeless, all of these things, and the impact that it had on your connection. So try to really figure out what was going on for you on a deep level during this conversation that triggered you and share your insights about this process in the group. All right, I'll see you next week