Hi, everyone. Welcome to video 2 of communication week. So now that we've looked at how we communicate with ourselves, We're gonna start looking at how do we communicate with other people.

And this video is about just what our our habitual ways of communicating with with other people, and how do we do it in moments that aren't full of stress, in moments that aren't painful or triggered.

So At this point in the program, you've gotten clarity on what you want.

You've started to integrate the parts of you that you weren't aware of. Started to integrate your shadow. You've reclaimed your pleasure. You're in touch with your breath and your body and your emotions.

So what's happening here in this process is that little by little, maybe without us even noticing, now we've managed to dethrone our thoughts as the sole rulers of our lives.

And we have strengthened these other inputs for us, like our senses, our body, our feelings, all of these juicy parts of life that bring a more holistic stick experience of being human.

When we start to take in the input from things besides only our thoughts, then we start to become more in alignment in terms of what our head wants, what our heart wants, and what our gut is telling us.

That means that we're able to listen to more of the pieces of ourselves.

And so there's hopefully not some voice we're ignoring, but there's not a part of ourselves that we've shoved away and forgotten about, that's nevertheless that less coming out in this weird, unhelpful way.

And when we're able to listen to all of the parts of ourselves like this, we're more in touch with our truth, moment to moment.

You know, using the breath being aware of our body, our posture, and, you know, the filters through which we're seeing the world, it can help us stay centered, help us stay connected to ourselves, even when we're cocreating our reality in conversation with another person.

And that's gonna be important in this video, but it's gonna be even more important in the next video when we talk about conversation and communication with other people in the context of being triggered or upset.

For now, you know, we wanna realize that all of these practices that we've been going through are really all about awareness.

They all have a meditative quality to them, meaning that the practice is to notice what we might not have been noticing for, and to constantly bring ourselves back to our intention, to bring ourselves back to what we really, really deeply desire.

To coming back to what our next level of love looks like.

Being able to have that meditative centeredness and being able to come back even when we've gotten distracted or knocked off our truth is gonna be extra important when we're communicating with someone else.

So the question for today is what are your habitual patterns when you talk to another person?

And you might be like, what are you talking about? I'm just talking. But I think by now you probably know Then what I'm asking is, are you just following, like, a rote unexamined way of talking are you trying to please the other person?

Are you trying to subtly manipulate the situation so you don't feel uncomfortable? Are you just speaking in platitudes or pleasantries? Or are you being honest? Are you accurately representing the truth of your experience?

Are you able to be vulnerable? Are you able to actually speak your truth? And go deep with this person. And how do you feel at the end of the conversation? So these things are really important.

They have a really big impact on our day to day appreciation of life, you know, being able to connect with other people, being able to have meaningful conversations, even with people, maybe we don't really know or when we're feeling awkward or caught off guard.

That's where all this work comes in where it's like, oh, suddenly, I'm awkwardly in this elevator with someone.

And, you know, it's professional business thing and I need to come up with something to say. Right? Some of us fall back on humor, which is great, but some of us don't really have that gift.

So What is there is there a way to just get real and say, wow, you know, we're really in this elevator together right now and I don't know what to say but I feel like I should say something. Let's think of something together.

You know what I mean? Like accurately representing the truth of what you're going through, whether it's being in the I don't know state or something else that's like a little bit vulnerable that invites connection from the other person.

Let me give you an example how this has impacted my life. So I didn't really realize it, but I was basically raised to speak in platitudes.

Right? To speak in pleasantries. To just be polite all the time and to follow just to follow, like, an imaginary script that was run my head that I didn't even realize was running my life.

And and I would ignore whatever surge of emotion would flow through my body when I was talking to someone else.

I would just try to pretend it wasn't there. Like if I felt envious, I tried to cover it up. If I felt angry or disappointed, I would try to just pretend that it was okay.

Or sometimes if I felt intimidated, my mind would go blank and I wouldn't really know what say to the other person, or maybe I wouldn't even be able to identify what I actually was feeling, and I would just be left in this kind of, like, state of totally disconnected both from myself and from the other person.

But when I started to do some work on myself, I started to realize in each moment, even if I don't know what to say that's clever or funny, or I don't really know the person very well.

I can always just fall back on my present moment experience and the truth.

And I can say, You know, let's say, for example, someone was sharing with me, which they have before, that they have a job where their job permits them to have 2 months off per year to travel.

Probably, you know, if someone would say that to me, I would feel really, really envious.

And I might say, oh, my gosh. You know, when you say that, I notice I feel pretty envious and also a little bit sad. And I'm realizing how important it is to me, like how much I want that to in my life.

Could you tell me more about how you manage to get this job. Right? So right away, it's like, I'm not passing some judgment, like saying, oh, how awesome that must be amazing. Wow. I bet you love that. Right?

That's sort of like me judging what they're saying and me you know, putting my own feelings on them, and not at all acknowledging the truth of what's going on in my body, and it it automatically invites them when I say something deeper about what's true for me to to trust me more to open and to have this shared experience together.

You know, it's like me as a human, I'm reaching out to them and being like, hey, I'm a person.

You're a person too. I know we both have. We both have all of these feelings in common. You know, when I share mine, I hope that brings you feelings of compassion or feeling closer to me.

It's really really a powerful So, you know, beyond even and, like, there's a ninja level to this too, that beyond even simply noticing how we're breathing, how we're holding ourselves, what's going on in our body, you could actually start to notice that about the other person too.

Like how are they breathing? How are they sitting? What's their general energy that they're putting off? And start to understand, you know, the impact on these deeper levels of our words and how important our words can be.

So the action step for this week is to sit down and review your most recent in-depth conversation that you had with someone. How did you present yourself? What were you hiding?

What were you not saying? What was going on in your body? Did you feel understood? Did it bring you closer to this person? Were you able to feel the other person too? Did you notice their posture, their breath, and their emotional tone?

So those are some questions to get you started, but just go as deep as you can and notice, you know, what are the unconscious programs that were playing in your mind for you when you were talking to this person?

What were you assuming that it wasn't okay to share or what were you not having the courage to tell them? Share what you discover about your most recent conversation in the group. And do it right now after this video.